Title: History of the New Jersey State Constitution
Originally, the state of New Jersey was a single British colony, the Province of New Jersey.  After the English Civil War, Charles II assigned New Jersey as a proprietary colony to be held jointly by Sir George Carteret and John Berkeley, 1st Baron Berkeley of Stratton.  Eventually, the collection of land fees, or quit-rents, from colonists proved inadequate for colonial profitability.  Sir George Carteret sold his share of the colony to the Quakers in 1673.  Following the sale, the land was divided into East and West Jersey.  In 1681, West Jersey adopted a constitution.  In 1683, East Jersey adopted one as well.  In 1702, the colonies were united again under Anne, Queen of Great Britain, and adopted a constitution in 1776.

Title: Province of Pennsylvania
The Province of Pennsylvania, also known as the Pennsylvania Colony, was founded in English North America by William Penn on March 4, 1681 as dictated in a royal charter granted by King Charles II.  The name Pennsylvania, which translates roughly as "Penn's Woods", was created by combining the Penn surname (in honor of William's father, Admiral Sir William Penn) with the Latin word "sylvania", meaning "forest land."  The Province of Pennsylvania was one of the two major Restoration colonies, the other being the Province of Carolina.  The proprietary colony's charter remained in the hands of the Penn family until the American Revolution, when the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania was created and became one of the original thirteen states.

Title: Province of New York
The Province of New York (1664–1776) was a British proprietary colony and later royal colony on the northeast coast of North America.  As one of the Thirteen Colonies, New York achieved independence and worked with the others to found the United States.

Title: Charter colony
Charter colony is one of three classes of colonial government established in the 17th century English colonies in North America, the other classes being proprietary colony and royal colony.  The colonies of Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Massachusetts Bay were charter colonies.  In a charter colony, Britain granted a charter to the colonial government establishing the rules under which the colony was to be governed.  The charters of Rhode Island and Connecticut granted the colonists significantly more political liberty than other colonies.  Rhode Island and Connecticut continued to use their colonial charters as their State constitutions after the American Revolution.

Title: Canada under British rule
Canada first came under British rule with the Treaty of Paris (1763) which ceded New France, of which Canada was a part, to the British Empire.  Gradually, other territories, colonies, and provinces that were part of British North America would be added to Canada.  The Royal Proclamation of 1763 enlarged the colony of Canada under the name of the Province of Quebec, which with the Constitutional Act 1791 became known as The Canadas.  With the Act of Union 1840 Upper and Lower Canada were joined to become the United Province of Canada.  Later, with Confederation in 1867, the British maritime colonies of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia were joined with the British colony of Canada to form the Dominion of Canada, which was subsequently divided into four provinces, Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia.  A number of other British colonies, such as Newfoundland and British Columbia, and large territories such as Rupert's Land initially remained outside of the newly formed federation.  Over time, the remaining colonies and territories within British North America came under the control of Canada until the current geographic extent of the country was reached when Newfoundland and Labrador joined Canada in 1949.  Although confederation in 1867 led to an enlarged Dominion with increased autonomy over domestic affairs, Canada still remained a colony within the British Empire and was thus subordinate to the British Parliament until the enactment of the Statute of Westminster in 1931.  This statute recognized Canada as an independent peer coequal with the United Kingdom, and thus provided the Parliament of Canada with legislative sovereignty over all federal matters except the power to change the constitutional laws of Canada which remained under the purview of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.  Canada's final vestige of legal dependence on the United Kingdom was terminated in 1982 with the enactment of the Canada Act, subsequently providing Canada with full legal sovereignty completely independent of the United Kingdom.

Title: Stamp Act Congress
The Stamp Act Congress or First Congress of the American Colonies was a meeting held between October 7 and 25, 1765 in New York City, consisting of representatives from some of the British colonies in North America; it was the first gathering of elected representatives from several of the American colonies to devise a unified protest against new British taxation.  Parliament had passed the Stamp Act, which required the use of specially stamped paper for legal documents, playing cards, calendars, newspapers and dice for virtually all business in the colonies, and was going into effect on November 1.

Title: Province of New Jersey
The Province of New Jersey was one of the Middle Colonies of Colonial America and became the U.S. state of New Jersey in 1776.  The province had originally been settled by Europeans as part of New Netherland, but came under English rule after the surrender of Fort Amsterdam in 1664, becoming a proprietary colony.  The English then renamed the province after the Isle of Jersey in the English Channel.  The Dutch Republic reasserted control for a brief period in 1673–1674.  After that it consisted of two political divisions, East Jersey and West Jersey, until they were united as a royal colony in 1702.  The original boundaries of the province were slightly larger than the current state, extending into a part of the present state of New York, until the border was finalized in 1773.

Title: New York – New Jersey Line War
The New York – New Jersey Line War (also known as the N.J. Line War) refers to a series of skirmishes and raids that took place for over half a century between 1701 and 1765 at the disputed border between two American colonies, the Province of New York and the Province of New Jersey.

Title: Proprietary colony
A proprietary colony was a type of British colony mostly in North America and the Caribbean in the 17th century.  In the British Empire, all land belonged to the ruler, and it was his prerogative to divide.  Therefore, all colonial properties were partitioned by royal charter into one of four types: proprietary, royal, joint stock, or covenant.  King Charles II used the proprietary solution to reward allies and focus his own attention on Britain itself.  He offered his friends colonial charters which facilitated private investment and colonial self-government.  The charters made the proprietor the effective ruler, albeit one ultimately responsible to English law and the king.  Charles II gave New Netherland to his younger brother The Duke of York, who named it New York.  He gave an area to William Penn who named it Pennsylvania.

Title: Stamp Act 1765
The Stamp Act of 1765 (short title "Duties in American Colonies Act 1765"; 5 George III, c. 12) was an Act of the Parliament of Great Britain that imposed a direct tax on the colonies of British America and required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London, carrying an embossed revenue stamp.  Printed materials included legal documents, magazines, playing cards, newspapers, and many other types of paper used throughout the colonies.  Like previous taxes, the stamp tax had to be paid in valid British currency, not in colonial paper money.  The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British victory in the Seven Years' War and its North American theater of the French and Indian War.  The Americans said that there was no military need for the soldiers because there were no foreign enemies on the continent, and the Americans had always protected themselves against Indians.  They suggested that it was actually a matter of British patronage to surplus British officers and career soldiers who should be paid by London.

